---
layout: post
title: "Why Santa Cruz Sucks"
date: 2017-08-16
comments: true
published: false
---

We moved to the city of Santa Cruz in September of 2013 to attend UCSC. I had some leftover financial aid funds from community college, and I worked all summer, so we were able to move in a month before classes started. We were so in love with the area at first! It was so much prettier than where we used to live, and it seemed really quaint and quiet. The apartment we found was the middle unit of a triplex, and it was a little rough around the edges, but it was bright and roomy, and it was in the perfect location -- right off the bus line that we took to class. We moved in before the apartment was finished, and we had to live a day without hot water, but we were finally living on our own! It was awesome!

Then, after a short while, things started to go downhill, and we realized how much Santa Cruz sucks. Here are a few reasons why:

## 1. Santa Cruz has a HUGE drug problem.
Anywhere you walk downtown, especially on the River Walk along the San Lorenzo River, you will see a bunch of cracked out homeless people. Not that all of the homeless people here are cracked out, but the most visible ones are definitely doing *something*. We lived on the 'west side' with all the million dollar homes (our apartment was really cheap for the area, surprisingly), and we would get woken up in the middle of the night to the sounds of crazy people walking up and down the street *screaming*. My brother's car was broken into multiple times, and the neighbors once called the cops because they found a homeless person sleeping in his car. They would steal his knickels and dimes -- that's how desperate they were. Every time I read the local newspaper, there was a headline about how someone was caught with drug paraphenalia, meth, and weapons. There were a couple of 'honey oil lab' explosions (really, if they just fucking regulated it then people wouldn't be blowing themselves up, but ok DEA, ban it and see how many more explosions there will be) in the first year that we lived here also. 

## 2. There's also a huge homeless population.
The majority of the homeless population is just down on their luck, but, continuing from my first point, a lot of them are also alcoholics or drug addicts. I work down the street from a park where lots of homeless people hang out and do drugs (also where people take their children for swimming lessons or baseball games -- pretty nice, right?). I would sit in my car by the park and eat lunch, and I would see someone selling drugs *every single day*, but the cops don't patrol that area. They only patrol areas where people are speeding because that's where the money is. There are a lot of programs to help homeless people get back on their feet, and I'm assuming they drug test people before offering them services, but there are still a lot of people around Santa Cruz who continue to believe that offering those services are what is causing all these drug-addicted people to come to the city (which is complete and utter bullshit). From what I have seen, a lot of the residents here just don't want to do anything to help solve the homeless issue.

## 3. Housing costs are ridiculous.
When we first moved here, our rent was $1675 per month, including water and garbage. Our utility bill didn't really ever get higher than $75, and that was in the winter months when we would run our space heaters. We were lucky in that our landlord didn't raise the rent too much each year. When we moved out, we were paying $1935, which was still not that bad, but the apartment was seriously in need of some work. The wood floors were mostly unfinished. I don't think they had been refinished since the 70's, or maybe even before. I would get splinters in my feet on a daily basis. The water heater would also stop working pretty much everyday during the first year that we lived there, and the plumber basically cut all of the safety wires because he said those were causing the issues. And the water heater was in the KITCHEN. I guess, that's legal, but it still freaked me the fuck out every time it made a noise. The plumbing was attrocious and would constantly get clogged up. The asshat plumber would accuse me of doing it each time because of my long hair, even though we ALL had long hair (seriously, my boyfriend's hair is longer than mine). We had tried to move pretty much after the first year we had lived there, and it took us 3 years to find another place. AND we only got that place because my boyfriend got a really good job after college (wish I could say the same). If he hadn't have gotten that job, then we would've had to move, out of state probably. Santa Cruz County has the **third** most expensive rental market in the country. You can expect to pay $1800+ for a studio apartment, $2200+ for a one-bedroom, and $2700+ for 2 bedrooms. We pay $2800 for 2 bedrooms (plus small office) to live in the mountains. It's beautiful. I love it, but the noise level is almost the same. You can move out to the mountains, but then you have to deal with all the redneck *mountain people* who play music extremely loudly at all hours of the night. Luckily, our apartment (which is part of a duplex) has really good sound-proofing and double-paned windows.

## 4. It seems like almost everyone who lives here has a deranged sense of entitlement.
People will tailgate the shit out of you, even if you're in the slow lane. People don't step aside as you're walking along the sidewalk, even if they're walking in the opposite direction of traffic. People treat others like they're beneathe them. They all use the excuse of just *being weird* or *laid back*. No. If you can't even wait for me to cross the street, IN the cross walk, and then get all pissed off when I give you a mean look, that makes YOU the uptight one. If you can't wait for 2 seconds for me to cross the street, YOU are the impatient one. I can't tell you how many times I've heard "Oh, that's just Santa Cruz man. Keeping it weird!" They're keeping it intolerably non-liveable. They're trying to hang on to what Santa Cruz used to be before the tech boom, and it's nothing like that now. It's all a bunch of rich, spoiled brats who only take their feelings into consideration, and who don't think they have to be respectful of others because they live in Santa Cruz.

## 5. UCSC just SUCKS.
Everyone thinks they're the only ones who have ever gone to college. They're going to college with thousands of other people, but somehow they're the special ones. They are so special they can't even wait to cross the street. They just run into the street and hope drivers are watching out for them. I have seen multiple people almost lose their lives because they ran in front of a bus to catch it. I can't even describe all the shitty things about UCSC. Most college campuses probably have the same problems. I think I just hate college students. And people in general.

## 6. Traffic is ridiculous.
Be prepared to be on the road for hours just to go a few miles. Some of my co-workers who live in south county (Watsonville area) have to drive an hour and a half to get here, and it's only about 20 miles away. If I didn't work in Santa Cruz, I would never come here. It would be an all-day event just to do anything around Santa Cruz.

## 7. Everyone thinks they're some hippie, Earth mother type (and they're total hypocrites).
Everyone drives a Subaru or a Prius around here. They all shop at New Leaf, which is *MORE* expensive than Whole Foods. They are against all chain stores, except for McDonald's, Taco Bell, and Starbucks (which there are multiple of). They tried to prevent Costco from being built about a decade ago, and now all the retired people and stay-at-home soccer moms shop their regularly (probably everday, from the looks of it). There is a housing crisis here, yet when any developer comes in with plans to create more housing, residents fight them the entire way because of "NIMBY" (which is not actually meant for housing developments, but for landfills and hazardous waste sites -- things that could be hazardous to your health, but I guess the idiots around here never got that memo). So, they want to complain about the housing costs, but they don't want to build more housing for the inevitable influx of new residents. Makes total sense. They all talk about *going green* but balk at the idea of taking public transportation (heaven forbid they see a *homeless* person on the bus). I was in the Environmental Studies program at UCSC, and I would witness several of my classmates literally drive from class to class. There's a shuttle on campus, a city bus that runs on campus, and there are numerous bike and walking trails that will take you directly to where you need to go. There is absolutely **NO REASON** to drive around campus just to get to class -- you're an Environmental Studies student for fuck's sake!

## 8. Everyone has one of those damn 'Santa Cruz' stickers in the shape of some marine animal.
Even if they live here. They're meant for tourists. Not the Santa Cruz skate brand stickers, that I can understand having on your car. But why would you spend $5 for a sticker with the name of the place that you live?? To show off when you leave Santa Cruz? So they could have a reason for their arrogance about living in Santa Cruz? I don't get it. We can clearly see that you live in Santa Cruz, you don't need a stupid octopus shaped sticker that says it.

## 9. Everything is so damn expensive but low quality.
I guess I can't speak for the super fancy places, because I can't afford to go to them, but places like grocery and clothing stores are just ridiculous. Firstly, there aren't many places for people to shop if they're on the larger side. Most of the clothing stores in Santa Cruz are *organic* or some other hippie-chic type clothing that was made only for size 6 and under it seems like. There's a Target in Capitola, but like I said before, it would have to be an all day event, and it's just not worth it to me to drive all the way there to find they don't have anything I like on the ONE plus size rack that they have (they're also about $20 for a shirt or blouse that may just fall apart in the wash anyway). As for food, unless you want fast food, be prepared to pay $15 on average for one meal. Maybe I'm cheap, but back in San Jose you could at least find cheap mom 'n pop grocery stores and restaurants. There's so many Asian, Latino, and Halal markets over the hill that are inexpensive, and then Santa Cruz has New Leaf, the most expensive hipster grocery store I have ever seen in my life.

## 10. People don't like to work around here, it seems like.
I go to Safeway, and the asshole cashier literally stops checking my items so he can text someone. Not like, he checked all my items and then he replied to one text. No, he stops midway to respond to MULTIPLE texts while I'm standing there, flabergasted. The quality of the food there is also horrendous (pretty much all the Safeways in Santa Cruz are like that, but the one on Mission Street is particularly shitty). Some of my superiors don't like to work either, especially the directors who make lots of money. For some reason, they don't think they need to work the entire day (my boss specifically averages at most 6 hours a day, and that's including his multiple 20-minute breaks and lunch). As a taxpayer who is partially paying their salaries, that pisses me off to the nth degree. Some directors can't even be bothered to make it on time to interviews that THEY REQUESTED. And then they act so surprised that I'm here everyday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. "Wow, you're still here??" Yes, I'm fucking still here. Where the fuck are YOU going??

Living here really is a catch 22. It's beautiful, and you want to just stare into the redwoods forever, but then you have all these idiots that make you wonder how they've survived so long without accidentally killing themselves. Living "over the hill" is even more expensive, so we're basically stuck here. And there's a neverending wave of people that just keep moving here, even though there's nowhere to live (thanks "NIMBY" numbnuts).
